# Predict Customer Churn

- Project **Predict Customer Churn** of ML DevOps Engineer Nanodegree Udacity

## 📌 Project Description
This project aims to identify credit card customers at high risk of churning using machine learning techniques. Implementing Python's PEP8 standards and best software engineering practices, the package offers a flexible user interface that can be run either interactively or via the command-line interface (CLI).

## 🛠️ Requirements

The project requires various Python libraries which are listed in `requirements.txt`.

### Installation

Install all dependencies with the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## 📂 Files and Description

Here's a breakdown of the primary files and directories in this project:

- **[`data/`](./data/)**: Contains the dataset used for the project.
- **[`images/`](./images/)**: Holds plots, exploratory data analysis (EDA), and result visualizations.
- **[`logs/`](./logs/)**: Contains logs generated by `churn_library.py` and `churn_script_logging_and_tests.py`.
- **[`models/`](./models/)**: Stores the machine learning models.
- **`Guide.ipynb`**: Provides a comprehensive set of instructions for the project.
- **`churn_library.py`**: A library of functions designed to identify customers likely to churn.
- **`churn_script_logging_and_tests.py`**: Contains unit tests for the `churn_library.py` functions.


## 📜 Running The Scripts

You can execute the project's core scripts using either `ipython` or `python3`. Below are the commands for each method:

#### Using IPython:

```bash
ipython churn_library.py
ipython churn_script_logging_and_tests.py
```

#### Using Python3:

```bash
python3 churn_library.py
python3 churn_script_logging_and_tests.py
```

### 🛠️ Code Quality and Formatting

#### Using Pylint for Code Quality:

Run the following commands to check the code quality with `pylint`:

```bash
pylint churn_library.py
pylint churn_script_logging_and_tests.py
```

#### Using Autopep8 for Code Formatting:

Run these commands to automatically format the code according to PEP8 standards with `autopep8`:

```bash
autopep8 --in-place --aggressive --aggressive churn_library.py
autopep8 --in-place --aggressive --aggressive churn_script_logging_and_tests.py
```

## 💯 Pylint Score

The code quality has been checked using `pylint` v2.7.4 as mentioned in `requirements.txt`.

- **`churn_library.py`: 10/10**
- **`churn_script_logging_and_tests.py`: 10/10**
